content/kb/using/registration.md, before:

Title: Nickname Registration
---

Your nick is how people on freenode know you. If you register it, you'll be able to use the same nick over and over. If you don't register, someone else may end
up registering the nick you want. If you register and use the same nick, people will begin to know you by reputation.

Certain channels require you to register before you may speak in them. The [Unable to Speak](#unable-to-speak) section below explains this further.

Some terms you should know:

- an "account" is your persistent identity
- a "nickname" is your current display name and can be owned by an account
- to "identify" means to log into your account
- "NickServ" is a freenode service that behaves like a user (which you can send private messages to)

Registering
==============

The following steps are the recommended method to register and set up a new freenode account. If you have questions or doubts about the process, a member of
staff will be happy to discuss it and answer any questions you may have.

1.  **Select** a master, "primary", nickname. If the nickname you want is registered but has expired, just ask a staffer and in most cases, we will be happy to drop
    it for you. Please avoid using the name of a community project or trademarked entity, to avoid conflicts.


2. **Switch** to your desired nickname. This will also be your account name.

        /nick YourNick

3.  **Register** your IRC nick:

        /msg NickServ REGISTER YourPassword youremail@example.com

    Replace "YourPassword" with a secure, unguessable, and unique password that you keep secret. Reusing passwords between services can result in [account compromises](/news/security-update-rpa).

    The email address that you select will not be given out by staff, and is mainly used to allow us to help you recover the account in the event that you forget
    your password. For this reason, you are required to use a real, non-disposable, email address.

    Upon registering, you will receive an email with a verification command that you will need to run to complete the registration process. **Failure to verify** the
    account will cause it to be automatically **dropped** after about 24 hours.

    We do not recommend sharing your NickServ password with anyone else as this could compromise account security and make it harder for you to recover your account in the future.

4.  It's useful, but not required, to have an alternate nick grouped to your account. For example, if your primary nick is "YourNick":

        /nick YourNick2

    then identify to your primary account:

        /msg NickServ IDENTIFY YourNick YourPassword

    and finally, group the new nick to your account

        /msg NickServ GROUP

    We prefer you to use just one account, and group nicks to it as described above, rather than registering for multiple accounts. Grouping nicks in this way
    gives you the benefit of having all your nicks covered by the same cloak, should you choose to wear a cloak. The exception to this is where you might want to
    run a bot. You should register a separate account for your bot.

Logging In
==========

You'll need to log in to your account each time you connect to freenode.

The simplest, and most robust, way to do this is to configure [SASL](kb/using/sasl), if your client supports it. If not, you can supply your login details, in
the form `<account>:<password>`, as a server password and they will be forwarded to NickServ when you finish connecting. For example:

    /connect chat.freenode.net 6667 YourNick:YourPassword

Unable to Speak
==========

If a channel is set to mode `+r`, you won't be able to join it unless you are registered and identified to NickServ. If you try to join, you might be forwarded to
a different channel. If a channel is set to quiet unregistered users (mode `+q $~a`), you won't be able to speak while on that channel unless you are registered
and identified.

Both of these modes are used by some channels to reduce channel harassment and abuse.

Once you have registered and are logged in, this issue should disappear.

Nickname Expiry
===============

Registered nicknames and accounts will expire if they're not used for a long time, after which they'll be available for another user to take over. See our
[policies](pages/policies) for details of when this occurs.

While nicknames and accounts do not automatically get deleted when they expire—only when another user requests to take over the registration—we do
occasionally perform clean-up runs on the services database, in which we will automatically drop all registrations which have been idle for a long time. When we
do this, we set the threshold for deletion considerably higher than the documented expiry time, to ensure that users close to the limit do not lose out.

Commit message:

Registration: add instructions for finding staff
Normally I'd mention `/stats p` instead of `/join #freenode` for obvious reasons, but the channel is actually fairly helpful for registration issues so I made an exception.

Fixes #492

content/kb/using/registration.md, after:

Title: Nickname Registration
---

Your nick is how people on freenode know you. If you register it, you'll be able to use the same nick over and over. If you don't register, someone else may end
up registering the nick you want. If you register and use the same nick, people will begin to know you by reputation.

Certain channels require you to register before you may speak in them. The [Unable to Speak](#unable-to-speak) section below explains this further.

Some terms you should know:

- an "account" is your persistent identity
- a "nickname" is your current display name and can be owned by an account
- to "identify" means to log into your account
- "NickServ" is a freenode service that behaves like a user (which you can send private messages to)

Registering
==============

The following steps are the recommended method to register and set up a new freenode account. If you have questions or run into trouble, join freenode's support channel with `/join #freenode` and we'd be happy to assist.

1.  **Select** a master, "primary", nickname. If the nickname you want is registered but has expired, just ask a staffer and in most cases, we will be happy to drop
    it for you. Please avoid using the name of a community project or trademarked entity, to avoid conflicts.


2. **Switch** to your desired nickname. This will also be your account name.

        /nick YourNick

3.  **Register** your IRC nick:

        /msg NickServ REGISTER YourPassword youremail@example.com

    Replace "YourPassword" with a secure, unguessable, and unique password that you keep secret. Reusing passwords between services can result in [account compromises](/news/security-update-rpa).

    The email address that you select will not be given out by staff, and is mainly used to allow us to help you recover the account in the event that you forget
    your password. For this reason, you are required to use a real, non-disposable, email address.

    Upon registering, you will receive an email with a verification command that you will need to run to complete the registration process. **Failure to verify** the
    account will cause it to be automatically **dropped** after about 24 hours.

    We do not recommend sharing your NickServ password with anyone else as this could compromise account security and make it harder for you to recover your account in the future.

4.  It's useful, but not required, to have an alternate nick grouped to your account. For example, if your primary nick is "YourNick":

        /nick YourNick2

    then identify to your primary account:

        /msg NickServ IDENTIFY YourNick YourPassword

    and finally, group the new nick to your account

        /msg NickServ GROUP

    We prefer you to use just one account, and group nicks to it as described above, rather than registering for multiple accounts. Grouping nicks in this way
    gives you the benefit of having all your nicks covered by the same cloak, should you choose to wear a cloak. The exception to this is where you might want to
    run a bot. You should register a separate account for your bot.

Logging In
==========

You'll need to log in to your account each time you connect to freenode.

The simplest, and most robust, way to do this is to configure [SASL](kb/using/sasl), if your client supports it. If not, you can supply your login details, in
the form `<account>:<password>`, as a server password and they will be forwarded to NickServ when you finish connecting. For example:

    /connect chat.freenode.net 6667 YourNick:YourPassword

Unable to Speak
==========

If a channel is set to mode `+r`, you won't be able to join it unless you are registered and identified to NickServ. If you try to join, you might be forwarded to
a different channel. If a channel is set to quiet unregistered users (mode `+q $~a`), you won't be able to speak while on that channel unless you are registered
and identified.

Both of these modes are used by some channels to reduce channel harassment and abuse.

Once you have registered and are logged in, this issue should disappear.

Nickname Expiry
===============

Registered nicknames and accounts will expire if they're not used for a long time, after which they'll be available for another user to take over. See our
[policies](pages/policies) for details of when this occurs.

While nicknames and accounts do not automatically get deleted when they expire—only when another user requests to take over the registration—we do
occasionally perform clean-up runs on the services database, in which we will automatically drop all registrations which have been idle for a long time. When we
do this, we set the threshold for deletion considerably higher than the documented expiry time, to ensure that users close to the limit do not lose out.
