content/kb/sasl/revolution.md, before:

Title: Configuring SASL for Revolution
---

If you have already added freenode as a server, long press on it and select Edit, and skip to step 5.

1. On the "Manage servers" screen, the main screen, press plus button on the bottom-right of the screen
2. Enter a name (perhaps freenode)
3. Enter chat.freenode.net as "Server address", leave port as 6697 and leave "Use SSL/TLS" ticked
4. Leave "Server password" blank
5. Select "Username with password (SASL)" from the "Authentication mode" dropdown list
6. Enter your freenode account name as Username
7. Enter your freenode account password as Password
8. Enter your desired nickname(s) as Nicknames
9. Press the tick symbol on the top-right of the screen and you will be returned to the Server list
10. Tap on the freenode server to connect it, tap on it again to view the server output

If everything was configured correctly, you should see a `SASL authentication successful` message when you connect. You will already be identified, so you don't need to do this again.

Commit message:

more backticks, `+` not `plus`, be more assertive about tls

content/kb/sasl/revolution.md, after:

Title: Configuring SASL for Revolution
---

If you have already added freenode as a server, long press on it and select Edit, and skip to step 5.

1. On the `Manage servers` screen, the main screen, press `+` button on the bottom-right of the screen
2. Enter a name (perhaps freenode)
3. Enter `chat.freenode.net` as `Server address`, making sure `Port` is set to `6697` and `Use SSL/TLS` is ticked
4. Leave `Server password` blank
5. Select `Username with password (SASL)` from the `Authentication mode` dropdown list
6. Enter your freenode account name as `Username`
7. Enter your freenode account password as `Password`
8. Enter your desired nickname(s) as `Nicknames`
9. Press the tick symbol on the top-right of the screen and you will be returned to the Server list
10. Tap on the freenode server to connect it, tap on it again to view the server output

If everything was configured correctly, you should see a `SASL authentication successful` message when you connect. You will already be identified, so you don't need to do this again.
