---
author: christel
date: 2017-07-13 19:35:39+00:00
slug: freenode-live
title: freenode #live - Registration and CFP now open
category: community
category: general
category: freenode
---

The inaugural freenode #live conference takes place at At-Bristol in Bristol, UK from Saturday 28 to Sunday 29 October 2017. Both days will include talks and workshops, and we look forward to this community-focused gathering.

[Tickets are now on sale and there is a special Early Bird price until 31 July](https://freenode.live/conference/fn-live17/tickets) and we are also taking [submissions](https://freenode.live/conference/fn-live17/program/proposal/new) for the call for participation, we have three tracks to choose from (FOSS & Community, Privacy & Security and Making & Remixing) and we look forward to receiving your submission.

We will be making every effort to ensure that freenode #live is as inclusive an event as is possible and we encourage the minorities within our community to attend and to submit proposals.

# What are we looking for?
We are looking for proposals for talks, workshops and other events and as a community-focused organisation, freenode is committed to ensuring that this conference is open to YOUR ideas! The more varied the programme, the better.

Perhaps you have something you would like to share with the community? We welcome proposals on all subjects and at any level of technical expertise, please do not feel constrained by the track subjects. We are keen to hear about your experiments, your discoveries, solutions, achievements and even your failures. We want to hear about “how to get started with X,” “how to use Y,” and “what we learned from working on Z”.

We want you to come teach us something new, we want you to make us think and we want you to make us laugh. Go ahead and submit a proposal for a talk, we’d love to hear your ideas.

Perhaps you could lead a tutorial on something of relevance to the freenode communities or the FOSS ecosystem? Why not throw your ideas in the hat and submit a proposal to hold a workshop?

Have a completely different idea? Is there something you would love to see happen at freenode #live? Let us know! We’re open to all ideas!

We want to hear from you, if you are planning to come to the event then you are very much part of the community and as such this is very much your conference. We want to hear from you regardless of whether you are a seasoned speaker or if this is the first time you are considering getting up in front of an audience. The freenode community is friendly and welcoming.

The CFP closes on 15 August 2017.

Together with our main sponsor and co-host of this year’s event, [Private Internet Access](https://www.privateinternetaccess.com), we very much look forward to welcoming you all to Bristol in October!

If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to drop us a line to 2017-team@freenode.live or hop into #live and chat with us.
