content/pages/people.md, before:

---
Title: The People
---
The freenode project is run entirely by volunteers. All of the current volunteers came to the project through involvement with one or more of the projects that use freenode.

The organisational structure of the freenode project can be split roughly into four areas, each with a designated lead or leads.

- **kloeri** is head of infrastructure, in charge of making sure that the network continues to run in a usable fashion and that we have the right hardware and server platforms in place to provide the services we want.
- **ilbelkyr** is head of IRCd and services development, in charge of the software platforms that we use to run the network.
- **Swant** is head of web development, in charge of the websites and web services we provide.
- **tomaw** is head of staffing, projects and communities and also the overall project lead in charge of the other heads.

Together, these heads take any decisions that affect the future direction of freenode. The project also benefits greatly from the ongoing support and enthusiasm from its contributors and volunteers, both official and unofficial, and is grateful for the time and efforts invested in the project by past and present volunteers.

The freenode project keeps a keen eye out for individuals who may provide a good fit to the existing volunteer base and we periodically recruit existing participants who have made a strong positive impression and we believe would be a good fit on the staff team.

If you are looking for freenode volunteers on the freenode network you can find us in _#freenode_ where we are always happy to have a chat or you can use _/stats p_ to find volunteers that are immediately available.

Commit message:

Reorganisation shuffling (#501)
* rebrand projects and community

* Update people

* Blog post on the reorganisation

content/pages/people.md, after:

---
Title: The People
---
The freenode project is run entirely by volunteers. All of the current volunteers came to the project through involvement with one or more of the projects that use freenode. 

The organisational structure of the freenode project can be split roughly into three teams, each with a designated representative or representatives, elected by the respective teams. In addition there is a representative of staff, who coordinates the project as a whole.

- **tomaw** is representative of staff.

- **e** is representative of the development team, coordinating development of the software that we use to run the network, as well as web, tool and bot development.

- **glguy** is representative of the infrastructure team, coordinating the technical side of network operations to ensure things continue to run in a usable fashion and that we have the right hardware and server platforms in place to provide the services we want.

- **Fuchs** is representative of the projects and community team, coordinating group registrations, fostering a good relationship with communities using our services and communication via our various public channels.

However, decisions affecting the future direction of freenode are taken by staff as a group. The project benefits greatly from the ongoing support and enthusiasm from its contributors and volunteers, both official and unofficial, and is grateful for the time and efforts invested in the project by past and present volunteers. The freenode project keeps a keen eye out for individuals who may provide a good fit to the existing volunteer base and we periodically recruit existing participants who have made a strong positive impression and we believe would be a good fit on the staff team.  If you are looking for freenode volunteers on the freenode network you can find us in `#freenode` where we are always happy to have a chat or you can use `/stats p` to find volunteers that are immediately available.
